+++
date = '2026-01-21T09:34:02Z'
draft = false
title = 'Hello Blog'
author = 'Podepod'
tldr = 'The first post of this blog, written over the span of a few days while I setup the website.'
tags = ['blog','research']
+++

## A first blog post, while figuring things out

How does this display the text? I don't know... How do I deploy this blog? I don't know... How does Hugo work? I don't know...

But I want to figure it out and start this.

### Theme

```bash
echo "I hope it does format it well"
```

I'm going to try a few Hugo themes. I started with the paper theme, but I don't like thos colors and I think it was more then I wanted or needed.

The Console theme was kind of what I am looking for, but the code blocks didn't work as I expected.

After this I tried the Void theme but Hugo returned some compiling errors I didn't feel like troubleshooting...

As of now I am using the Archie theme.

```
this is A multiline code block

I would like to have it be colored black and be syntax highlighted

When no code language is specified it looks like it behaves normally
```

do `inline codeblocks` work as wel? They seem to work.

```powershell
# When there is a language specified it does some weird styling...
# I don't know why it does this

Write-Host "The syntax Highlighting seems to work"
Write-Host "But the styling is just weird"
```

---

I have used the above text as a way of validating the themes I tried. I think for now I will stick with Archie and try to customize it in the future.

Things I want to try to customize. But I'm not sure how flexible the themes are. I like the [Archie theme](https://github.com/athul/archie) a lot, but have some things I'd like to change.
In the future I'll try to figure out how I should go about changing the themes.

### A todo list before ending this post...

So my current to do's are:

- [ ] Figure out how to add pictures to a post
- [ ] Figuring out how to host the site after I build with Hugo
  - [x] Cloudflare pages hosting
  - [ ] Cloudflare pages only custom domain.
  - [ ] When figured out, making it an automated process after I write something, I only have to run one command or even none at all
- [x] Git
  - [x] Add this git repository to my github
  - [x] Use git as intented and commit more changes.
- [ ] Customization
  - [ ] Footer Text
  - [ ] Theme colors
  - [ ] Possibly a dark mode?
  - [ ] circles at the bottom of the page don't have to be there in my opinion, but not sure if I'll be able to remove them 

---

### Git / Github

At the moment of writing this sentence this folder is initialized with git, but the repository has no remote origin. I want to upload this to my Github account.

To do this I created a Github repository named `blog.podepod.be`. With the commands below I added it as a remote origin and pushed the contents of the folder to Github.

```bash
git commit -m "init"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/Podepod/blog.podepod.be.git
```

When logging in to Github from the terminal I ran into an issue I always run into after not using Github for a while. Logging in with just a username and password does not work anymore. Which is a good thing security wise, but I always have to lookup how authenticating should be done... More of a me problem but still.

Figured it out again, and now I can commit and push without any problem. Using git-credential-oauth it's way easier to login.

For now this is good enough. The commands I need to use to update my repository are just the default git commands

```bash
git add * # or a specific file or folder
git commit -m "<commit message>"
git push -u origin main
```

### Hosting

With Hugo you can run a developments server with the command below. But this is not recommended for a production environment. So I'll need to figure out how to host the static site generated by Hugo.

```bash
# Commands to run the development server
hugo server --bind <server-ip>  --baseURL http://<server-ip> -D
```

After this, the development server starts and is available on `<server-ip>:1313`

As far as I can find, after you run the `hugo` command, the folder `./public` is generated. This is the full static site. This can be hosted a lot of ways, but the 2 main ones that stick out for me are Github Pages and Cloudflare Pages (under Build > Compute & AI > Workers & Pages)

I think I want to try and use one of those two options because the project should already be uploaded to GitHub and my DNS is already with Cloudflare.

#### Cloudflare Pages

I found documentation about Hugo in the cloudflare docs: [https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-hugo-site/](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-hugo-site/) I also found some documentation in the cloudflare docs about adding a custom domain and disabling access to the default pages.dev domain: [https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/configuration/custom-domains/](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/configuration/custom-domains/) The Cloudflare documentation looks very usefull and complete :) This should be very usefull when I eventually setup the Cloudflare pages project.

---

It's a day later and today I'll try the hosting part of this website. For me the easiest way to host this seems to be to just run a docker container with a simple webserver that only servers the `/public/` folder generated by Hugo.

But the easy way isn't always the most fun. So I'll try to host the static site on Cloudflare pages, guided by the docs above.

I went to the `Workers & Pages` page and clicked `Create Project`. I clicked on `Connect to GitHub`, connected my Github account, gave access to the repository and when I returned to the page the `Connect to GitHub` button had changed to `Continue with GitHub`. So that's what I did :)

After that I needed to select the repository I wanted to use, so I selected the one for this website and went to the `Create and deploy` part op de process.

Here I filled in the fields required:

- Project name: `blog-podepod-be`
- Build command: `hugo -b $CF_PAGES_URL`
- API token name: `<filled in :)>` 

After this the build failed... I think the `$CF_PAGES_URL` variable is not a standard one or not filled in so I made the variable in the build settings. I also added the custom domain `blog.podepod.be`. The base URL for hugo now is `blog.podepod.be`. This seemed to fix the build issue. Only the deploy failed.

For this issue I found another documentation link on the deploy command: `npx wrangler deploy`: [https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/commands/#deploy). The `wrangler deploy` command has a parameter `PATH` which specifies what needs to be deployed. So I tried a new deploy command: `npx wrangler deploy public/`. This gave a new error. The `PATH` parameter seemns not to accept a directory, for this I should have used the `--assets` flag. So this is what I tried: `npx wrangler deploy --assets=./public`. This again gave a new error message...

The new error had to do with the `compatibility_date` flag of `wrangler deploy`. I found this documentation page to help me understand what it is: [https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/compatibility-dates/). It states that the compatibility date should be set to the date of deployment. This can be done by putting it in the wrangler config file (which I do not yet have). But I can also includ it in my deploy command as a flag: `npx wrangler deploy --assets=./public --compatibility_date 2026-01-22`. Which (again) is what I did. And it worked! The site is now hosted on Cloudflare pages, there are only a few problems with it.

- the styling does not work
- the links, don't work because they prefix `blog.podepod.be` to the folder structure. This is weird.

I think this is probably because of some issues with the baseURL and bind IP of hugo. 

--- 

Another day later and I'm again trying to figure out why the styling on the site isn't working properly...

I figured out my `$CF_PAGES_URL` had a typo in the variable. This seemed to have fixed the weird hyperlinks on the site. But not yet the styling.

After waiting e few minutes and triggering a new deploy by pushing the changes I made to this post to the git repository, it seems to also have fixed the styling issue. So I can check the hosting part off at my todo list above. The only thing I still want to fix about it is the pages domain is still reachable, I hope to disable this.

#### DNS

To disable access to the `*.pages.dev` domain I'm again just going to follow the steps of the docs I found earlier. There should only be two steps required, if I read the docs right :)

The steps in the docs does not work for me, it says I should go to `Settings > General` and select `Enable Access Policy` in the Pages project. But this option does not show up for me...


I found out I made a big mistake. There is a difference between a Cloudflare workers project and a Cloudflare pages project... And ofcourse I seemed to have made a worker project instead of the pages project. So I removed the worker and made a Pages project...

Here I can see the settings I didn't when I was looking for them in the worker. So I can try to restrict access to the `*.pages.dev` url.

---

I think it worked. That's it for this post :)
